Module 6 planning and building your product’s first version
Sell MVP first. What is minimum viable product should look like that gives you good emotional feedback.
How founders and entrepreneurs makes classic mistake of thinking themselves as customer.
What is the model you should built your first version of the product on. Is it target audience, is it use case, is it combination there of. 
Audience are different from you because go to trending section you will be ashamed that Nepali people watches shit. So, shit sells even if you make a golden product they mayn’t like it. Eg online movie ticketing is < the offline.
Anyone who earns 8-10 thousand a month is middle class in Nepal and they are majority and this about their perspective not your idealization of product for customer. Let’s go build product for middle class in Nepal and you will surprised you will make product for yourself.
Must people who want to know consumer wants they post survey and middle class I.e. your customer mayn’t get in that survey so, find right channel for you consumer or speak them manually. Your network in social network represent you not consumer.
Think of you customer segmentation on the product and built around it product, communication, messaging all around this customer.
You don’t built product for target audience, you build your product for use cases, situations, context, circumstances, and you don’t care who fits into them. Nearby has three use cases: when you go out to eat and drink with your friends that’s use case and you want cheap about certain quality if it’s not occasion there product(content) communication is different and when we have certain event or occasion could be birthday, date, anniversary, mother day, promotion party etc there communication will be different. Next use case gifting when you give gift there we should have different communication. When building product build in context and situations and you don’t care who comes in, don’t think about target people this to target all. Built for one use case and do it really well. When uber launched, it said I only has one use case if you want cab right now where ever you want. I don’t want to built a cab for people for tomorrow morning, I don’t want to built who wants a cab for some other place, I don’t want build a cab who wants after 15 or 20 minute, I am only building those who wants it right now, it’s very simple and specific to understand and I don’t care what’s my target audience as it’ s for all. Now they have many use cases after they grow big as a recognizable brand but at start time uptown 7 years they focused on that one thing. Amazon started with only one use case books, I want to become the biggest book seller on earth, I want all the books at best price and ship fast and I don’t care who are you. When tomato started there use case we give you menus of all the restaurant there are, you could reserve, rating  and lots of other things coming in but right now we give menus. Don’t build your product for customer segment but build your product for use case, build your product for problem statement and one customer journey. Build your product for one customer journey and solve that really well. 

When it’s comes to B2B you like hey it’s a client and he wants multiple use cases, so shift there is don’t build for multiple client when you thinking B2B and BP, you think of a client. One client centric case study. You solve all the use cases of that client has. All the best business that came out in B2B naturally centered anchored on one big client definition. It could be client they already had or new. 
It could be SME in particular industry, it could be SMME in particular industry, it could be enterprise account in particular industry. We pick this industry and laser focused on the use case. 


Framework:
This framework to access how customer behave, how do they engage with products, what are the use case customer has certain mannerism, guidance, approach in their head, what are the use cases they become completely different while being same customer/person. I call this model TMT model.  Time money and trust model. 
Image in copy
What it mean by time no and yes , it means for that particular customer and particular use case, does the customer behave they have no time in their life or they behave as if they have lot of time in their life.  Money means do they behave they don’t have lot of money or behave they have lot of money, trust means do they approach the use case as trust burst approach or do they approach use case as trust deficit approach. 
Which quotient nearbuy falls in time rich money poor and trust burst part. Because we can trust rating, testimonials, discounts, coupons etc. I have time but not money, trust helps giving best deals. 
When it comes to our kids we become time rich, money rich as we want best education. 
TMT model is great way to understand customer behavior and cater your MVP(minimal viable product). 
Figure of table in page.
It’s not what your product does that makes difference, it’s how the product make the customer feel that makes difference.
It’s not about building features, it’s not about building interface that is cool and jazzy and smooth and so on. It is how it makes customer feel that how customer and product work or not. 
If your first version of product is perfect and does not have any mistakes, you launched it too late. Don’t strive for perfection. The MVP should have something it serve that use case end to end but don’t need to serve another use case and do good job of that and ship, release it and start getting feedback because people tells you what you don’t know. Launch as fast as you can. Don’t fall for features, don’t built features and features… features is not the reason while they will stay. It’s not the reason they continue to buy and not the reason why they come back. 

Find something still missing by competitors and make that use case if possible.
Can you move from one cohort to another?yes
People don’t trust real state but if we give detail about house like neighbors, nice things about places, bad things about places, they trust.
Don’t fall in love with solution starts falling love with problems. 
curse of intelligence.
Is this the feature people will pay for, most time no.
Think of big use case neglect one targeting less market portion. 
Bank don’t have UPI built in so we use app CRED.
CREG is FOMO because only people with certain credit limit gets approved to join.
Customer are forgiving so launch fast.
MVP true goal is to find out have you approached product and problem in such a way, you solved it meaningfully to the customer to the extent they will miss it if it’s not there.
Go to customer segment or customer cohort.
Spend time in Solon, hotels and observe what they talk about to know your target customer.
Make website first don’t need app.
As a product if you try to become everything for everyone before you become something for someone, you will becoming nothing for no-one.


 
 


 