Module 7 pricing your product
Pricing is are more than science.
All pricing is about human psychology so you should know their emotion towards product.
three(3) key component of product that determine pricing, VCF framework that determine pricing(value, competition, frequency):
VCF framework is directional framework, given the value your product gives to customer, kind of competition your customer experience around your particular product, frequency with which they engage with your product gives you very good direction to what kind of pricing mechanism do you deploy.
Like product evolution market will evolve, customers will evolve and it changes in those 3 key component VCF. Now initially you are in certain cohort and now that cohort(segment) change, your pricing should also change. Amazon is famous for changing the pricing all time like stock price change they doing that from demand supply curves, competition in market, and frequency with which consumer are buying or seeing to engage.
Value=not what people pay but what people get from our product. Important of product In consumers life.
competition=anything that occupies the consumer mindset, either top of mind as direct or indirect competition.
frequency=engaging frequency. The more frequency the more value they will scribe if there is value scribed to it in first place.
Fig table in copy
Membership vs subscription.
Membership approach is that you will attach yourself to certain product on certain membership.
Membership means there is some sort of eligibility/threshold you have to pass after which you become a member. Everyone can subscribe to Netflix and it don’t judge but membership judge.
Indirect competition means uber competing Tesla for rent rather buy.
Direct competition means ford competing Tesla.
Freemium pricing means in linked has free component built to it and but can upgrade to pro by paying as well. It gives you access to writing email to those who are not direct connect with, look at people looked in your profile etc.
Linked also gives the data of people even they are not 1st or 2nd degree connection.
Subscription is charging period of time and re charge for next period.

Pricing the MVP:
MVP is not free, if you building car and your MVP is skateboard have you seen skateboard sold for free.
Pricing is what is the price for product not necessarily what you get from customer.may be you give it for some customers to check response, but there should be price means it worth 100$ but I am giving it free to first 10.
You may give discounts, cash back, introductory price or even free but there need to be region logic behind that and
Pay for 12 months and 3 months free.
Penetration pricing means price the product so low that you get lot of people to consume it survey it and test it.
Analyze the competition of the price that is being set it ridiculous so many people don’t do that and its so basic.
Do throw mapping of competitors price. If you are higher then there should be very strong reason why.
Nearby discovered , The closer the client to merchant, lesser discount is needed. The farther away they are from restaurant (merchant of nearby). We new where they were accessing there mobile app from tracing their location and shouldn’t give discount if they are near our merchant because they are sure to go to that restaurant.
Price your product for what it will be not what it is today.
MVP does not mean the price needs to be low, it means the customer pays you lesser than the price. You have to price your product as that this is the end product.
I don’t understand what Ankur said “price the MVP scatbord as end product(car)). Price your initial product as final product because that is what you want to release with.
If you do not price it what it will be, but what you are then as your price increasing as you improving and releasing your product then no one will buy it. Because no-one likes that.
People love the flexibility, security, confidence and predictability of knowing the price upfront.
Reason why people use nearby was we were at all points all inclusive of taxes pricing. Whatever you see on nearby that’s the only price until you want to tip.
Reason why we able to sell at MRP(maximum retail price) large share of our user are like I am going out for the evening and I will love to know how much I am going to spend before I go out.
For b2b, if you think of freemium must people will tell you start with free and create a paid version. That advice is not sound advice here is why, big mistake entrepreneur do is that over index the free part ie they give out a lot of free version and once they over index in free, very few people see value in paid version. Here is what to do you should start with paid version, this is MVP remember MVP is not going to make you fastest growing company on earth. Job of MVP is to tell what is that our consumer likes and what is they don’t scribe value and whether they will miss you if your product is not there. You find bad but you charge from start and once you establish right price for paid version is and you gone iteration on MVP, it’s very easy for you to release free version.

5 pricing strategies that work wonderfully, they are deeply embedded in human psychology:
1> decoy effect: if you have two products that you trying to sell, you introduce third one as decoy to get people to consider the higher value product. Eg world street journal did decoy effect, they said at $5 you get print version of Wall Street journal, for $10 you get online version of world street journal . If I leave at this two, I am not sure what people will buy or not buy. You want to push people to $10 the there is decoy, decoy was at $10 you get both and instantly people bought this.

2> center stage: it’ s classic SAAS model which is being used. Means you have pricing option in horizontal and vertical list and if this is odd in number, then people gravitate toward middle of it. If number of option are odd and what’s it should be, then people gravitate towards center pricing option. That is great pricing strategy to make them look at certain option right at centre. Ankur placed recoded at centre of live and individual sessions live and 70% bought centre package too.

3> framing: the way you frame your pricing and your discount is how people will react and it’s embedded in the human psychology that human pay a lot more attention to preventing risk or loss than to getting a gain. We are lot more loss or risk lovers than to gain loving.
If you have to give discount say limited options available, only 5 left, or say 50% off or say 2036 people bought. Which will work better among above above statement that one which creating scarcity. When you are on payment page there is timer to make you believe that time is left for that price. Framing means you have limited stock, limited time, limited prices.

4> bandwagon: The bandwagon effect is a psychological phenomenon in which people do something primarily because other people are doing it, regardless of their own beliefs. used in reference to an activity, cause, etc. that is currently fashionable or popular and attracting increasing support. If you show people who are part of bandwagon you get people to accept the price. Eg 4078 people already bought.

5> penetration pricing: you price the product what ever price it is but you give them notion of ridiculously low price to drive up demand to see or determine what the price could be. You don’t know the price but to determine the price you have a ridiculously low price and see where it goes. Eg Ankur pay what you want conference. And most of first few seasons people paid whatever they felt they like. There are enough people who paid one rupee and enough people who pays multiple thousand because that’s the value they scribe to it. And I am tricking tell me what is the value because I don’t know. Through this I found the price.

B2B SAAS is more about free trials. They will need the confidence that your product works for that they have to run pilot. I have seen paid pilots create lot value than free pilots.

Q> how do you make people to understand value of product for changing optimal pricing?
