Module 5 basics of fundraising
Angel->seed->preSeriesA->series A,B,C,D,E->exit.
I am not going to talk how to raise money. That’s the interlay different things like what the pitch should be like, who to approach, what do investors like, what you say the which investor, what are the contacts of them non of them.
Here we discuss should you even raise funds or not, know how it works for you, how dilution work, what is pre money valuation, how to shares get allotted, what happens one of your founder also an investor, what happens to ESOP pool, how does the voting rights change, what kind of right do investors typically have, all of this.

1> should we raise money or not:
Investors are not in the business of building businesses, they are in the business of entering and exiting businesses and get return. They raise money from LPs or limited partner. LPs could be high net worth people or could be very large institutions like pension funds, university and endowment funds, sovereign(gov) funds, government surplus, ones who manage the funds may be partner, associates, analyst, are called the GPs of the general fund. They risk their money as fixed deposit with higher return %. Here is what happens, you are privately listed company which means you don’t trade in market and stocks are not liquid. Let’s say investor investing you at the value of 100 and forget dynamics we will get to that. And let’s say they put you 10, ie now they own 10%of the company. But if it is illiquid asset, it’s no direct way of knowing what’s the value of company is today. What’s the best way to know value of stocks then, to raise another round with another investor and lets they I value the company 150 and I am going to put 15 in that ie 15%. That’s the way 1st investor know he is generating return. When you raise money institutionally, you raise money seed fund, angel, preSeries you essentially signing up to raise money forever and ever because that is the only way you can show money  investor growing.  You mayn’t want to raise money and for you to get exit, which is either IPO or sale or M & A is far may be 7-8 years and no-one is gonna wait that long to say asset is too good or not so you have to raise every 12-18 months. I will have to spent all previous investment money for growth and to have next raise(fund raising) to show growth. Grow from invested money and raise money again and cycle repeats.

There is one consideration called liq pref(liquidation preference). It’s big.  
If you need to raise money then when could be right time and why?
Venture capital essentially means you are going to come really early in the company and core skill of the company more often than not is technology because technology gives leverage and allow to do lot more with lesser. People invest in technology because other business even profitable like Cole business never become billon dollar valuation overnight. Tech startup eg uber, airbnb, amazon, google, Facebook, if I invest then I am investing in vehicle that can become anything possible just driven by technology.

So, when you should raise money and why depend on whether you are tech company startup or not.
Framework to determine in copy depends on first are you tech company or not and second is are you generating revenue or not. 2*2 matrix Image of copy goes here.
Q> If you are tech company who do not have revenue then what should you do before start thinking of raising funds?
=> you should get to MVP(minimal viable plan/product) to even have a shot at raising a capital. Which means you will have to woke in with a product not just a prototype, idea or something in paper but something that you built and experimented which shows early sign of what it possibly be and it’s minimal viable product and why are you raising the funds, for launching the product essentially giving the MVP wings so it becomes lot bigger.

=>if you are tech company and you already generating revenue then right time or point to raise money for you to get to unit economics positive. Which means every transaction you do whether you are B2C or B2B company, for B2C transaction is clear you make transaction and there is payment and that tells you whether transaction is over or not, and for B2B company the acquisition of customer or client is a transaction. Unit economic positive tells you whenever such transaction happens in your business, you make a net positive amount. For example when you ship product through e commerce, cost are cost of product you shipping as you have to pay the merchant that you bought product from, cost of packaging, cost of storing the product in your warehouse, the cost of shipping the product, cost of damage during shipment, cost of refund or cancellation, and when you add all this do you still make money is unit economics positive. And why you raise money, for growth and if you selling 100 you sell 10,000  and if you getting 10 customer now you aim for 100.

ANGELS:
Typically when you raise the 1st amount it’s done by someone called angles. Angels may be your friends, family, your ex-bosses, some formal angels like entrepreneurs who helps startups. That’s how first check comes from.

SEED round:
Seed round is this is when you bow the seeds and wait for first plant or fruits to emerge.

Angels takes max risk. No more than one to two % of your investments becomes really big and when they do they returns more than your fund size. You need is to become angel for as business as you can with the right qualification of those ideas and founders. Then comes the seed which is first flavor of formality or institutional capital keeps coming, this is where documents will be shared seriously, evaluation takes place, this is the point I referring to above 2/2 metric of tech and revenue, this is where you need to be sure you want raise money or not. Lot of institution runs a program for seed to startups and lot of seed capital firms out there. Now you comes to preSeriesA and so on this is you going to investment committee and pitching your idea, you making sure all your numbers are intact, you giving out projections, you creating business plan…
Whenever company is ready for investment, there is something called pre money valuation, which is the value of company before investments happen. This value determined by revenue that you have, growth that you experiencing, the industry that you are in, team that you have, the kind of attraction that you show so far, now when you get investment premoney valuation plus the investment that you get gives the post money valuation.
Pre-money valuation + investment = post-money valuation.
Now post money valuation will determine what will be the ownership of every individual in that company now have.
Q> how to determine the pre-money valuation of the company?
=> I use matrix I call tech revenue growth matrix. Right always will be able to raise funds and if you could not raise funds because investors don’t believe in team. that becomes a qualifier, to raise funds you need good team. For pre-money valuation there are three revenue, tech or not and what king of growth are you experiencing are three biggest determinants of what could be the pre money valuation for your business. 
Figure in the copy..
Best segment is be tech, have revenue, have growth. Means if you are tech company and you making 10 lakhs every year and but it’s growing like you have 5 lakhs last year and 10 lakh now and maybe show sign of projecting more like 25 lakhs next year then you will be valued pre-money valuation=8-12 * revenue per year= 8-12 *10 lakh=

The amount that you need or able to raise is derivation not a desire so, use table to make good valuation.
You can’t say I want to raise 10 crores for non tech gaining 30 lakh revenue every year as valuation from fig table is 5*30 lakh=1.5 crores=100% of company you want raise of 10 crores who will give that. Even if they die the want 100%. Start with pre-money valuation and the think for how much portion should you give-up. 

Math question:
Let’s say you make 1 crore revenue a year, and you have two founders with 50:50, and they had 100 share of the company, ie founder 1 has 50 shares and so founder 2 to make 100 share and equal. Investor comes in and say I want to invest 20 lakhs of company. Now question is how much investor get and founder1 and 2 own after this investment. Let’s our investor comes up with 1 crore pre-money valuation. Per share price=1 crore/100 shares=1 lakh.
As investor investing 25 lakh so he now get 25lakh/1lakh per share=25 shares.

Now pre-investment: founder 1=50 shares, founder 2=50 shares and investor=0 shares.   ==100 shares in company
         Post-investment: founder 1=50 shares, founder 2= 50 shares and investor=25 shares.==125 shares in company
         Post own: founder 1=50/125=40%, founder 2=50/125=40% and investor=25/125=20% of the company.

Which means if some one came in and at 1 crore pre-money valuation and invests 25 lakhs, everyone will get diluted by 20% which is what the investors gets. Here new shares that are formed into the company which is 25 shares and because of new shares everyone valuation remain the same but ownership percentage got down by 20% that investor has got. 
Q> by how much you can increase the shares?
=>you can increase shares as much as you want. You can always increase shares that is what happens when new investor comes in they increase number of share.
q> shouldn’t be the number of share are same?
=> no, they are not. They are same only if the share are transferred and transacted which is what happens in stock market. When you buy on stock market, you buying from someone who owns it. But if new investor invest in then they are buying new shares in the business. It’s new investment that generates new shares in business. 


Another math problem:
There are 10,000 shares in the company. Founder1 = 60% of company, Founder 2=30%, ESOPs=10%. investor comes in and says I want to invest 25 crores at pre-money valuation 1 crore. 
solution= per share price=1 crores/10,000 shares=rupee 1000,  share for investor=25 lakhs/1000=2500 shares. 
Look at copy solution 2. 



Who determine number of share, you determine number of shares when you start. Most shares in India starts with price 10 rupees each, and minimum amount needed in India to start private ltd  company is 1 lakh so which means most  company starts with 10,000 shares at 10 rupees which equals 1 lakh rupees.

If there were two founders both at 50:50 at start and they go to 5 rounds of fund raising, and average dilution per round. let’ s assume average dilution 20%, 25% and 30% for 5 round each 3(they are different problems). At 20% they will have 16.38% each at the end of 5th round,  at 25% they will have  12.65% each at the end of 5th round and at 30% they will have 9.6% each at the end of 5th round. For every fundraise you dilute yourself and all owners. This is why when you actually read the cap-table(capital table) of really large companies, you will see the founders do not own more than 10% usually. Which means they have become employee of their investors.  

It’s very hard to determine what the pre-money valuation Is because you use your model and metrics to calculate and investor use their own. Why don’t we let the market decide what the valuation is at some future point of time. Here is what I(investor) am going to do, I am going to give you something called called convertible debt(loan) and that loan has very special thing, it will get converted into equity at some point in time in future. And what will be that time in future, when you actually go on to the next round. Because hope is that by the next round, you will have revenue, growth and some metrics to help classify and quantify what the pre-money valuation is. Today we don’t have anything, I believe in you, product and market but we don’t know the valuation to invest. Then in next round will determine what this debt convert to how much equity. Biggest thing there need to be next round why? If there is no next round this is legally looked as loan and you are morally, financially, legally obliged to pay that loan. 

Liquidation preference:
When you get your money from investor, recognize investor is in the business of entering and exiting means they want to get their money back with return. When their is an exit, let’ s say you have raised one million dollars and their is exit opportunity for you and investor owns 40% and you 60%. Most people think that if you sell company for 2 million dollars, investor get 40% of that and you get 60% of that(2 million). But that’s not how it works. The way it works is there is something called liquidation preference(liq-pref). liq-pref is whenever there is exit, the investor will first take out the amount they invested and then it will be split among investors and other share holders. Which means if you sell company for 2 million, investor will take out 1 million from that and then the remaining 1 million will 
Be split in the same ratio as the ownership. If that happens it is Called participating liquidation preference which means investor participates and takes the first amount and then participate in remaining amount with their ownership. So, investor in this case will get 1.4 million dollars as he invested 1 million with 40% equity. There is liquidation-preference built into every investment. Now you realize how hard it is to make money through fund raising process because it’s not about dilution which will make your ownership lesser but it also about liquidation preference.
  
Q> what’s difference between ownership and voting rights?
=> every share you have gives you a voting right. Voting right is the ability to vote for any company matters. Company operates by board. When investor come in they will have a board. Investor, you as founder will comprise the board, now you as CEO will report to board. You raising another money, raising loan, entering in new business, exiting some business, hiring senior with ESOPs, etc should come to board and votes on that  and simple and absolute majority works, what’s simple majority anything more than 51 % and absolute majority anything above 75%. If you have your shares in company equal to a vote then if you have 10% of company, you have 10% voting rights. So, lot of founders not just care ownership they have but also voting control they have over the board. Mark Zuckerberg has one of his stocks = 2 votes and that’s why he never need to ask board for permission, how to get that point only if you built the company most people want to be part of regardless any term and condition layer out. But in our case fund raise happens on the term of investor because we are not big and good to apply conditions.
Minute investor comes in all the ownership ESOPS and the founder ownership go on vesting schedule. That is the investor way of insuring founder is on the business at least some period of time. If founder has 50% and all of that comes to them on day 1 itself, then they can technically leave the company and someone else will come on his behalf. Founder as well as employee will be locked in to company using ESOPs.


Q> What is one of my cofounder is also an investor?
=>  if you cofounder happens to be investor, you have to be very carefully dissociate cofounder and investor equity. Two framework you use. 1> framework to decide cofounder equity SSS framework. and 2> framework to decide investor equity.         Your cofounder has 30% and you have 70% of the company and your cofounder said I want to put 20 lakh with 80 lakh pre-money valuation, it could very well be convertible debt but lets not assume convertible debt. Now total value of the company is 80lakh+10lakh(valuation of start up in India)=1 crore. And now his 20 lakh now going to give him 20 % in the company. Now new investor which also happens to be cofounder act as if new cofounder diluting with 20%.
New ownership will be you will get diluted by 20% of the 70% that you have ie 20% of 70=14% will go away. You will now be left with 56%. Similarly your cofounder previously having 30% will be left with 24% after dilution by 20%.
New cap table of company is you have 56% and your cofounder have 24(as partner/cofounder) + 20(as investor)=44%.

Q> does operating losses of initial years hurts the chances of further fund raising? No, everyone considers starting business get in loss so, that is not considers to be detriment.

Biggest hurdle to raise for subsequent round is the business is not growing that you expected to or not growing in the economics that you expecting to and only burning money.
Big loss making companies in India still continue to raise money because they are still growing very fast.

Q> Difference scale and growth?
=> scale means scaling in other geography while growth means in single city you growing very rapidly. Growth can come by two things either growing in one thing you doing or growing in multiple things you doing.

If you investor are sequoia, and institutes made for investment they will guide you so, choose investor wisely.
Do your due diligence and do it in such a manner that you should have the ability to say no I don’t want your money.
Don’t raise money get idea from them too. 

Assets of start up don’t account for the pre-money valuation but based on revenue or cashflow the business makes only asset counted is actual cash not hardware, land.

Q> In liquidation preference if founder wants to sell off their shares then how does it works?
=> liquidation preference nothing to do with it. Cases you have heard when founder sell own shares to current or new investors. That is called second re-transaction which is almost same like stock market transaction where when you buy a stock you buy from someone else who already  owns the stock so no money goes into the company all money goes into pocket of investor who owns the stock and that is called second re-transaction.  second re-transaction don’t happens because founders wants money. Here is the big term investor will always put to their investment, it’s called right of first refuser. It means whenever their is any situation context where someone else is willing to buy shares of a current investor, then all the current investor have the first right to sell and only then they refuse can the founder sell their shares. Why is that investor like hey I put in money so, if there is any opportunity to sell, I should be the first one to sell not you. Typically investor like I am willing to do second re-transaction of one crore all investor like it will be stupid to stake us all 1 crore so, why don’t we split this one crore in some sort of ratio so, that some part of one crore also goes to the founder to be able to sell there shares. So, let’s say founders get right to sell their shares worth 10 lakh and that’s what  they get to. Whatever extent the founder can they can sell share of 10 lakhs remaining investors sell their shares of 90 lakh, and no money will go into company but to those investors and new investor get the share for the price he paid. Typically when this transaction happens at discount to premoney valuation. 

Q> please can you talk about drag along and tag along rights of an investors?
=> tag along means if there is any opportunity to sell, investor says I have a right to tag along. If anyone will to buy share irrespective of who they are willing to buy from, I have the right to tag along and sell my shares as well. And drag along means if I want to sell my shares, I  have right to drag along other investors to sell as well. It exists because investors raise money from their partners for certain period of time and at the end of that they have to return that money back to the partners. At that point they very quickly exit because they have to give the money back so I am dragging along founder and other investors to agree to any deal even the price is so less then market valuation. 

It’s harder for LLP’s to raise funds so, people want their business as pvt ltd.

Q> should all investors dilute pro rata or can there be differences?
=> all shareholders typically dilute pro rata. Only in exceptional cases, shareholder decide I am going give out lot more than the others. One exception is ESOPs, here investor will not want that they put the money get the ownership and then the ESOP pool is created because they have to dilute their equity as well to create the ESOP pool. So, they want the founders to do is create the ESOP pool and create it in such a way that even after my ownership, ESOP pool is at 10% so you will have to dilute for that. That is the case where not all the parties dilute the pro rata, the founders do and then the investors comes in. This is called fully diluted  basis. Means the company is fully diluted and no one is diluted after and ESOP is at 10%. Which means dilution has happened before investor invests.

Q> if there is partial exit due to lesser inflow compared to valuation than who gets to exit first? Is it FIFO or LIFO?
=> it is LIFO.the shares are given a certain preference. Last in  Vender gets high-test preference and founders lowest.

Q> what is sweat equity and why to mentors demand it from day 0?
=> equity for hard work.

Q> is valuation done in multiple of revenue or ebitda?
=> great question. If you look at large company in stock market their are multiple of ebitda. Unfortunately in tech there is no ebitda for startup and will not be for a long time, must evaluation done on revenue. In private, most valuation done on revenue multiple and in public, must valuation  done on ebitda.

Company buybacks, company has so much cash in it’ s account, it begins to buy shares allowed to investors/shareholders because they believe value of stock is lot higher than it’ s trading right now.

Q> what’s happens to investor who wants to exit in next round?
=> they have to get to point where there is understanding from next investor that money goes to them not to company. Remember new investors don’t like that because they want to grow company with new money they have but if that cash goes to previous investor, it’s waste.

Absolutely run bootstrap company rather raising. Local demand and local supply company required large capital so, they cannot run with only bootstrapping because every new geography needs to be opened from scratch.
 But must of software business, SAAS business, B2B business they can easy go on bootstrapping as don’t required funding. Eg fusioncharts, browser stack, zoho, all this company don’t raise lot capital but build large businesses using best software.
captable.io. great website for coming up with cap table.

Q> How does CEO or cofounder salary work and who determines?
=> until investor comes in CEO and cofounder determine. And Investor has to grow company with profit and they should also receive adequate salary so, they make balance in that.

Q> can the company valuation be devalued in the next round of series funding?
=> absolutely, it’ s like stock market. Value can be go up and down. Private company you don’t know what the real value of the company is. This is called down round when valuation in next round is lesser than previous one.
Most of funding that is happening right now in COVID, is down round ie companies run out of capital, investors had Putin lot of money and to save those investment they have no choice but to re-invest to make company run. 

Q> APPROXIMATELY what % growth is consider good growth for startup in seed or pre series A?
=> ballpark is at least 100% growth on year and year. Typically seed rounds happens with growth rate of 300-400%.

Q> how has zeroda manage to not raise any money?
=> because it’s profitable.

Q> when founder takes debt funding and company decide to shut down and since loan is on the company, does founder liable to pay loan even startup fails?
=> NO. that’s the definition of private limited company, private limited means liability limited and liability don’t transfer to owner of the company. In llp (limited liability partnership) they are liable though. It depends on what kind of company you set up. In pvt ltd, the company takes debt and no legal implication on founder but social, psychological etc. 

Q> CAN we calculate share price of post money?
=> no, only pre money.

Q> some investor there for short haul and other for long haul. 
Employee are given ESOP not sweat equity because sweat equity don’t have vesting period and employee can run with it.

Q> in which situation one take debt instead equity?
=> only profitable and growing company can pay debt back. Can you get personal loan from bank. No because I don’t have job similarly companies are not provided debt if it’s in loss because it don’t have money for it’ s own existence how will it pay debt. 

No startup ever fails, what they fails in is live up to the expectation they have for themselves and and that they sold to the investors.
 









 







 












